Add ConfigMap concept (#20102)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap.md

---
title: ConfigMaps
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 20
---

{{% capture overview %}}

{{< glossary_definition term_id="configmap" prepend="A ConfigMap is" length="all" >}}

{{< caution >}}
ConfigMap does not provide secrecy or encryption.

> 

Reviewer: nit: Remove extra line?

If the data you want to store are confidential, use a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="Secret" term_id="secret" >}} rather than a ConfigMap,
or use additional (third party) tools to keep your data private.
{{< /caution >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}
## Motivation

> You can use a ConfigMap when you want to set configuration data for your workload that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use a ConfigMap for setting configuration data for separately from application code.
```

> is separate from application code. For example: if you have code component that you can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, storing different database locations for a code component that you can```

Reviewer: @sftim, I think this example could be reworded (or you could generalize the example):
I think you are saying: you can use ConfigMaps to set different environments for running an application (development) and cloud (data center, on prem).
For example: if you are developing an application [or code component] to run in the cloud (...)

Author: Reworded (thanks @celestehorgan).

> run on your own computer (for development) and in the cloud (to handle real traffic),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
run on your own computer (for development) and in the cloud (to handle real traffic).
```

> you might want to tell the component where to find a database. You write the code to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You write the code to
```

look in an environment variable named `DATABASE_HOST`. Locally, you set that variable
to `localhost`. In the cloud, you set it to refer to a Kubernetes
{{< glossary_tooltip text="Service" term_id="service" >}} that exposes the database
component to your cluster.

> This approach lets you fetch a container image that was running in the cloud and be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This lets you fetch a container image running in the cloud and
```

> able to debug the exact same code locally if you need to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
debug the exact same code locally if needed.
```

## ConfigMap object

A ConfigMap is an API [object](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/kubernetes-objects/)
that lets you store configuration for other objects to use. Unlike most

> Kubernetes objects that have a `spec`, a ConfigMap has a `data` section where you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes objects that have a `spec`, a ConfigMap has a `data` section to
```

> can place items (keys) and their values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
store items (keys) and their values.
```

Here's an example ConfigMap that has some keys with single values,
and other keys where the value looks like a fragment of a configuration
format.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  Name: game-demo
data:
  # property-like keys; each key maps to a simple value
  player_initial_lives: 3
  ui_properties_file_name: "user-interface.properties"
  #
  # file-like keys
  game.properties: |
    enemy.types=aliens,monsters
    player.maximum-lives=5
  user-interface.properties: |
    color.good=purple
    color.bad=yellow
    allow.textmode=true
```

There are four different ways that you can use a ConfigMap to configure
a container inside a Pod:

1. Command line arguments to the entrypoint of a container
1. Environment variables for a container
1. Add a file in read-only volume, for the application to read
1. Write code to run inside the Pod that uses the Kubernetes API to read a ConfigMap

These different methods lend themselves to different ways of modeling
the data being consumed.
For the first three methods, the
{{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}} uses the data from
the Secret when it launches container(s) for a Pod.

> The fourth method means you have to write code to read the Secret and its data;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The fourth method means you have to write code to read the Secret and its data.
```

> however, because you're using the Kubernetes API directly, your application can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, because you're using the Kubernetes API directly, your application can
```

> subscribe to get updates whenever the ConfigMap changes, and react almost

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
subscribe to get updates whenever the ConfigMap changes, and react
```

> instantly when that happens. By accessing the Kubernetes API directly, this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
when that happens. By accessing the Kubernetes API directly, this
```

technique also lets you access a ConfigMap in a different namespace.

> Here's an example Pod that uses value from `example-configmap` to configure a Pod:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's an example Pod that uses values from `game-demo` to configure a Pod:
```

Not sure about this change but I _suspect_ this is what you mean, tim :)

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: configmap-demo-pod
spec:
  containers:
    - name: demo
      image: game.example/demo-game
      env:
        # Define the environment variable

>         - name: PLAYER_INITIAL_LIVES # note that the case is different)

Reviewer: nit: remove end paren

          valueFrom:
            configMapKeyRef:
              name: game-demo           # The ConfigMap this value comes from
              key: player_initial_lives # The key to fetch
        - name: UI_PROPERTIES_FILE_NAME
          valueFrom:
            configMapKeyRef:
              name: game-demo
              key: ui_properties_file_name
      volumeMounts:
      - name: config
        mountPath: "/config"
        readOnly: true
  volumes:
    # You set volumes at the Pod level, then mount them into containers inside that Pod
    - name: config
      configMap:
        # Provide the name of the ConfigMap you want to mount.
        name: game-demo
```

> The ConfigMap itself doesn't treat those keys and values any differently

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A ConfigMap doesn't differentiate between single line property values and multi-line file-like values.
```

> if they look like property values or like configuration file data. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> difference comes from the way you configure Pods and other objects to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What matters how Pods and other objects
```

Author: Think this is covered now.

consume those values. So for this example, defining a volume and mounting

> it inside the `demo` container as `/config` creates four files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it inside the `demo` container as `/config` creates four files:

```

Needs a space, the list was broken.

- `/config/player_initial_lives`
- `/config/ui_properties_file_name`
- `/config/game.properties`
- `/config/user-interface.properties`

> If you wanted to make sure that only files named `*.properties` were placed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you wanted to make sure that `/config` only contains files named with the `*.properties` extension,
```

> into `/config` you could use two different ConfigMaps, referring to both

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use two different ConfigMaps, referring to both
```

> ConfigMaps in the `spec` for a Pod. The first ConfigMap could define

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ConfigMaps in the `spec` for a Pod. The first ConfigMap defines
```

> `player_initial_lives` and `ui_properties_file_name` whereas the second

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`player_initial_lives` and `ui_properties_file_name`. The second
```

ConfigMap defines the files that the kubelet places into `/config`.

{{< note >}}
The most common way to use ConfigMaps is to configure settings for
containers running in a Pod in the same namespace. You can also use a

> ConfigMap separately.

Reviewer: nit: When would you do this: `You can also use a ConfigMap separately`

---
title: ConfigMaps
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 20
---

{{% capture overview %}}

{{< glossary_definition term_id="configmap" prepend="A ConfigMap is" length="all" >}}

{{< caution >}}
ConfigMap does not provide secrecy or encryption.

If the data you want to store are confidential, use a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="Secret" term_id="secret" >}} rather than a ConfigMap,
or use additional (third party) tools to keep your data private.
{{< /caution >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}

> ## ConfigMap object

Reviewer 2: Expand on this section. I had the following questions:

1) What's the most common/recommended use case for a ConfigMap? (non-sensitive Environment variables?)
2) At what stage in a Pod/container's lifecycle is a ConfigMap used? (I think the answer to this is "exclusively during creation", but I'm still not sure from reading this topic)
3) Can a Pod have/reference multiple ConfigMaps? (If so what happens?)
4) Does each key in a ConfigMap's `data` element need to be unique? (presumably yes)

Author: I'll answer here as well as try to make the page cover these things.

>  What's the most common/recommended use case for a ConfigMap? (non-sensitive Environment variables?)

ConfigMaps are usually used to separate configuration from code. For example, you can use the same container image to run locally on your PC for testing and in the cloud for live use, and you can do that

> At what stage in a Pod/container's lifecycle is a ConfigMap used?

There are 4 ways a Pod can use a ConfigMap:
- environment variables set when, AIUI, a container for that Pod is started.
- a volume mounted into the Pod for container(s) in the Pod to read
- when the kubelet starts a container in a Pod, it can set command line arguments based on a ConfigMap
- the Pod can talk to the cluster control plane and GET / WATCH the ConfigMap directly.

I _think_ that all 4 can account for changes to the ConfigMap that happen after you start the Pod. For example, a Pod can have 2 containers, 1 that is long lives and another that exits evert few minutes. The kubelet restarts the second container and on launching the replacement containers in the Pod, the kubelet uses the _current_ ConfigMap values not the values that the kubelet saw at Pod creation time.

There is a recent alpha feature, _immutable ConfigMap_. https://blog.alcide.io/kubernetes-1.18-introduces-immutable-configmaps-and-secretes explains this quite well.

> Can a Pod have/reference multiple ConfigMaps? (If so what happens?)

Yes. For example:
```yaml
    …
      env:
        - name: FOO
          valueFrom:
            configMapKeyRef:
              name: first-configmap
              key: name-of-a-key-in-configmap-1
        - name: BAR
          valueFrom:
            configMapKeyRef:
              name: second-configmap
              key: name-of-a-key-in-configmap-2 # could also be the same key as before
```

> Does each key in a ConfigMap's data element need to be unique?

When you store an object into the Kubernetes API, you can't store duplicate keys. When you write a manifest in YAML or JSON, the effect of trying to use a duplicate key comes from the format rules of YAML or JSON.

Reviewer 2: > the Pod can talk to the cluster control plane and GET / WATCH the ConfigMap directly.

Interesting. The question "can a ConfigMap's values change over the course of a Pod or container's lifetime, and what happens when it does?" almost made my shortlist. Might be worth answering this question, too :)

A ConfigMap is an API [object](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/kubernetes-objects/)
that lets you store configuration for other objects to use. Unlike most
Kubernetes objects that have a `spec`, a ConfigMap has a `data` section where you
can place items (keys) and their values.

## ConfigMaps and Pods
There are three different ways that you can use a ConfigMap to configure
a container inside a Pod:

- Command line arguments to the entrypoint of a container
- Environment variables for a container
- Add a file in read-only volume, for the application to read

> These different methods lend themselves to different ways of modeling

Reviewer 2: > These different methods lend themselves to different ways of modeling the data being consumed.

I'm not sure what you're trying to get at here – I think the subject, "the data being consumed" is confusing to me.

the data being consumed.

Here's an example ConfigMap that has some keys with single values,
and other keys where the value looks like a fragment of a configuration
format.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  Name: example-configmap
data:
  # property-like keys; each key maps to a simple value
  game-properties-file-name: game.properties
  ui-properties-file-name: ui.properties
  #
  # file-like keys
  game.properties: |
    enemies=aliens
    lives=3
    enemies.cheat=true
    enemies.cheat.level=noGoodRotten
  ui.properties: |
    color.good=purple
    color.bad=yellow
    allow.textmode=true
```

The ConfigMap itself doesn't treat those keys and values any differently
if they look like property values or like configuration file data. The
difference comes from the way you configure Pods and other objects to
consume those values.

> 

Reviewer 2: It would be good to hint at the next step here for people (Maybe a subheading, `## Using ConfigMaps`?) – just a quick overview along the lines of "Once you've defined a ConfigMap, you can reference the keys in `data` in your Pod's configuration, hurray!"

As it is, I feel like I understand ConfigMaps and what their purpose is, but I'm not sure exactly how to use them :)

Reviewer 2: Thinking about this in more detail: I think it's because in the context of this topic, "data" could either be the data a container is processing _or_ the `data` element in a ConfigMap, and I'm not sure which you're talking about in this sentence.

{{% /capture %}}
{{% capture whatsnext %}}

* Read about [Secrets](/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/)

> * Read [Configure a Pod to Use a ConfigMap](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/)

Reviewer 2: As a general next step, I think it's a good idea to look at [Understanding ConfigMaps and Pods](https://deploy-preview-20102--kubernetes-io-master-staging.netlify.com/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/#understanding-configmaps-and-pods) subtopic and figure out what needs to come over to this page. 

Ideally we'd be able to delete that subtopic when we merge this ;)
